Add policy for rebuilding container images in response to CVEs (#5129)
dotnet/dotnet-docker: documentation/guiding-principles.md

1. Images will be included as part of the .NET release process. The Docker images will be released at the same time as the core product.

1. Images will never be deleted from the [official Docker repositories](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet/). This does not apply to the [nightly repositories](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/nightly/README.md).

1. The [Dockerfiles](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/search?q=filename%3ADockerfile) used to produce all of the images will be publicly available. Customers will be able to take the Dockerfiles and build them to produce their own equivalent images. No special build steps or permissions should be needed to build the Dockerfiles.

1. No experimental Docker features will be utilized within the infrastructure used to produce the images. Utilizing experimental features can negatively affect the reliability of image production and introduces a risk to the integrity of the resulting artifacts.

> ## Image Rebuilds

Reviewer: I see this section as more of a support policy statement that should belong in a separate doc. Since this is a principles doc, I would expect this to have a statement like "Rebuilding of images is kept at a minimum to avoid downstream churn". That's a principle. How we implement that principle is what should be in a policy doc (this section you've added).

Author: Do you see this separate policy doc being a part of the container vulnerability workflow? Or a separate doc, since that one is intended as a guide for users?

Reviewer: I see it as part of a separate doc. As mentioned in the [original issue](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/issues/2787), we should have this in https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker#image-update-policy or a link from there to a standalone doc.

> ## Image Rebuilds

Author: Since I moved the content according to Matt's comment above, it's now located near another bullet that mentions servicing.

Since .NET container images are used as base images, excessive image rebuilds can cause immense usage of compute and network for our customers. We strive to rebuild our images only when absolutely necessary.

> Images will be rebuilt within hours of base image changes. For example, suppose a particular version of Alpine is patched. The .NET images based on this version of Alpine will be rebuilt with this new base image within hours of its release.

Reviewer: This should be specific with the amount of hours.

Author: I removed the duplication between this doc and the main README. This now points to the README where we state our commitment of 12 hours for base image updates.

An image will be rebuilt to pick up fixes for CVEs when:

> - We detect the image contains a CVE with a [CVSS](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss) score of "High" or "Critical".

Reviewer 2: CVE scores can vary especially in the early stages after a CVE has been discovered.  How do we handle this?  Do we need to state what CVE source we will use?

- **OR** when we detect the image contains a CVE that has not been assigned a [CVSS](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss) score for more than two weeks since the CVE was disclosed.

> - **OR** when we detect the image contains a CVE with a [CVSS](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss) score of "None", "Low", or "Medium" and it has been more than two weeks since the CVE was disclosed.

Reviewer: Can't these two be combined?

`... the image contains a CVE with an unassigned CVSS score or a score of "None", "Low", or "Medium"...`

Author: No longer applies as we don't reference "None/low/medium" anymore.

> - **OR** when we detect the image contains a CVE with a [CVSS](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss) score of "None", "Low", or "Medium" and it has been more than two weeks since the CVE was disclosed.

Reviewer 2: Can the previous OR be combined here?  e.g, with an unassigned score or a score of "None", "Low", or "Medium".

Author: No longer applies as we don't reference "None/low/medium" anymore.

> - **OR** when we detect the image contains a CVE with a [CVSS](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss) score of "None", "Low", or "Medium" and it has been more than two weeks since the CVE was disclosed.

Reviewer 2: I know we had a discussion on this yesterday aimed at addressing s360 customers but I think it is wrong for us to rebuild outside of a monthly servicing cycle for anything but high and critical fixes.

Author: Removed that condition for now.

    - This is to give ample opportunity for distro maintainers to re-build their base images with package updates so that we avoid repeated re-builds of our images.

> - **AND** The CVE is in a package that is a direct dependency of .NET or is in a package that we explicitly install in our Dockerfiles.

Reviewer 2: What are indirect dependencies of .NET?  What I mean is a dependency of a direct dependency of .NET.

Author: Updated the wording there to refer to any packages that are added in any of our image layers.

> - **AND** There is a fix for the package affected by the CVE available in the affected base image's package feed.

Author: I understand that this could be a little hard to parse. I am amenable to creating a mermaid flowchart instead to represent this workflow if @MichaelSimons or @mthalman you think that would be more readable.

Reviewer 2: I think something is needed here to make the conditionals obvious.   The ORs and ANDs are confusing IMO.

Reviewer: I'd like to avoid a flowchart if possible.

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering if we can make this simpler.

> We detect the image contains a CVE with a [CVSS](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss) score of "High" or "Critical".

Can we skip all those "ORs" and just do this? There is a cost to rebuilds and both distro maintainers and container users have a role to play here.

The key project here is to enable rebuilds. Once we have that, the policy should be easy to change. I propose we start with a very conservative policy and see how that goes.

Reviewer: @richlander - We're needing to balance this with internal requirements (S360) that would, in theory, require us to rebuild more often than just "High" or "Critical".

Reviewer 3: I take your point.

My proposed (very simple) policy will still be an improvement. Let's start with the smallest change possible and measure the effect. If users (external or internal) complain, we can adapt.

1. Images will be included as part of the .NET release process. The Docker images will be released at the same time as the core product.

> 1. Images will be rebuilt only as necessary in order to avoid downstream churn for consumers of .NET images.

Reviewer 3: I would be good to avoid a jargon word like "churn".

```suggestion
1. Images will be rebuilt only as necessary, to limit downstream image rebuild and redeployment activity.
```
